Datamodel docs (#7)
intelowlproject/docs: docs/IntelOwl/contribute.md

Example: `docker exec -ti intelowl_uwsgi python3 manage.py dumpplugin PlaybookConfig <new_analyzer_name>`

## DataModel

> In version XXX of IntelOwl, a new plugin has been added: the `DataModel`.

Reviewer: As you can see in the updated PR template, from now on we add a new line at the start of every new documentation section to document the version of the new feature: https://github.com/intelowlproject/docs/blob/main/.github/pull_request_template.md

Its main functionality is to model an `Analyzer` result to a set of prearranged keys, allowing users to easily search, evaluate and use the analyzer result.

> The author of an `AnalyzerConfig` is able to decide mapping between each field of the `AnalyzerReport` and the corresponding in the `DataModel`.

Reviewer: The basic description of each Plugin should be put in the "Usage section" so I expect these 3 rows there while I would name this overall section "How to create/customize the Data Model" or something similar to align it with the rest of the existing documentation

### AnalyzerConfig.mapping_data_model
Each `AnalyzerConfig` has now a new field, called `mapping_data_model`:
this is a dictionary of which the keys represent the path from which retrieve the value in the `AnalyzerReport`,
and the value the path of the `DataModel`. If you precede the key with the symbol `$` it means that is a constant.
Example:
```python3
report= {
   "data": {
      "urls": [
         {"url": "intelowl.com"},
         {"url": "https://intelowl.com"}
      ],
      "country": "IT",
      "tags": [
            "social_engineering",
            "random_things"
        ]
   }
}
mapping_data_model={
   "data.urls.url": "external_urls", # unmarshaling of the array is done automatically
   "data.country": "country_code",
   "$MALICIOUS": "evaluation", # the $ specify that this is a constant
   "data.tags.0": "tags" # we just want the first tag
}
```

> With this `AnalyzerReport` and its mapping, we will create a DataModel with this conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this `AnalyzerReport` and its mapping, we will create a DataModel with these conditions
```

```python3
# the values are lowercase because everything inside the DataModel is converted to lowercase 
assert external_urls == ["intelowl.com", "https://intelowl.com"]
assert country_code == "it"
assert evaluation == "malicious"
```

If you specify a path that is not present in the `DataModel`, an error will be added to the job.
If you specify a path that is not present in the `AnalyzerConfig`, a warning will be added to the job.
### Analyzer._do_create_data_model

> This is a function that every `Analyzer` can override: this functions returns a boolean and, if `False`, the datamodel will not be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a function that every `Analyzer` can override: this function returns a boolean and, if `False`, the datamodel will not be created.
```

> This can be used if the `Analyzers` can succeed without retrieving useful results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be useful when a specific `Analyzer` succeeds without retrieving useful results.
```

> Let's use as an example `UrlHaus`: if the domain analyzed is not present in its database, the result will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's use `UrlHaus` as an example : if the domain analyzed is not present in its database, the result will be
```

```python3
{"query_status": "no_results"}
```

> meaning that we can provide use the following code to consider only _real_ results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meaning that we can use the following code to consider only _real_ results:
```

```python3
def _do_create_data_model(self) -> bool:
  return (
      super()._do_create_data_model()
      and self.report.report.get("query_status", "no_results") != "no_results"
  )
```

### Analyzer._create_data_model_mtm

> This is a function that every `Analyzer` can override: this functions returns a dictionary where the values are the objects that will be added in a many to many relationship in the datamodel, and the keys the names of the fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a function that every `Analyzer` can override: this function returns a dictionary where the values are the objects that will be added in a many to many relationship in the datamodel, and the keys the names of the fields.
```

Reviewer: ```this function returns a dictionary where the values are the objects that will be added in a many to many relationship in the datamodel, and the keys the names of the fields.```

This is the technical explanation and is understandable. I would like to see another sentence with a more generic use-case explanation, less technical. In practice, you did it for all the cases but this one. 

Example ```This mean that you can use it for more articulate data transformation to parse the `AnalyzerReport` into a `DataModel`.``` or ```This can be used if the `Analyzers` can succeed without retrieving useful results.```

Let's use the `Yara` Analyzer as an example.

```python3
def _create_data_model_mtm(self):
  from api_app.data_model_manager.models import Signature

  signatures = []
  for signature in self.report.report:
      url = signature.pop("rule_url", None)
      sign = Signature.objects.create(
          provider=Signature.PROVIDERS.YARA.value,
          signature=signature,
          url=url,
          score=1,
      )
      signatures.append(sign)

  return {"signatures": signatures}

```
Here we are creating many `Signature` objects (using the signatures that matched the sample analyzed) and adding them to the `signatures` field.

### Analyzer._update_data_model

> This is the last function that you can override in the `Analyzer` class: this functions returns nothing, and is called after every other check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the last function that you can override in the `Analyzer` class: this function returns nothing, and is called after every other check.
```

This mean that you can use it for more articulate data transformation to parse the `AnalyzerReport` into a `DataModel`.
Again, let's use an example, this time with the analyzer `AbuseIPDB`.
```python3
def _update_data_model(self, data_model) -> None:
  super()._update_data_model(data_model)
  if self.report.report.get("totalReports", 0):
      self.report: AnalyzerReport
      if self.report.report["isWhitelisted"]:
          evaluation = (

>               self.report.data_model_class.EVALUATIONS.FALSE_POSITIVE.value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              self.report.data_model_class.EVALUATIONS.TRUSTED.value
```

          )
      else:
          evaluation = self.report.data_model_class.EVALUATIONS.MALICIOUS.value
      data_model.evaluation = evaluation
```
We are setting the field `evaluation` depending on some logic that we constructed, using the data inside the report.

> If the IP has some report but is whitelisted then we set the `evaluation` to `false positive`, otherwise to `malicious`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the IP address has been reported by some AbuseIPDB users but, at the same time, is whitelisted by AbuseIPDB, then we set its `evaluation` to `trusted`. On the contrary, if it's not whitelisted, we set it as `malicious`.
```
